README.adoc, before:

= asciidoctor-json-value-loader
:doctype: book
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
:toc: left
:toclevels: 4
ifndef::env-github[:icons: font]
ifdef::env-github[]
:status:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:important-caption: :exclamation:
:note-caption: :paperclip:
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

An https://asciidoctor.org/[asciidoctor] extention that loads specified JSON value
from specified JSON file as a text.

This extention offers just one inline macro named `json-value`.

== Installation

This extension is published on https://rubygems.org/[RubyGems] as asciidoctor-json-value-loader.

After adding it to your project's Gemfile or gemspec, you can install it by just running Bundler.

Or install it directly:

  $ gem install asciidoctor-json-value-loader

== Notation

This extension offers only one inline macro named `json-value`.

It requires following two.

- **A JSON file path to load**
- **A path to the value within that JSON**

You should give them to `json-value` inline macro,
as a concatnated string in the order of above list with comma-separated format.

Where:

* **A JSON file path**
+
Arbitrary character can be used as a path except `:`.

* **A path to the value within the JSON**
+
--
You can specify object keys and array index with dot-separated format. +
This extention dig into the JSON with them from root to child in order.

Each key string is decoded as a URI component in advance,
so that the `.` can be used as a part of key string.

In such case you need to convert `.` to `%2E` manually in advance.

WARNING: A number is always recognized as Array index number, not key string of the Object.
--



=== Sample

If following json file are given.

[source,json]
.a.json
----
{
  "abc": "def",
  "ghi": [ 1, 2, 3 ],
  "jkl": { "mno": 12345, "p.q": "rst" }
}
----

You can load its arbitrary value by specifying it like this.

[source,asciidoctor]
----
Object access: json-value:a.json:abc[].

Array element access: json-value:a.json:ghi.2[].

Array element itself: json-value:a.json:ghi[].

Object itself: json-value:a.json:jkl[].

Key that contains `.`: json-value:a.json:jkl.p%2Eq[].
----

It will be converted as follows.

[source,asciidoctor]
----
Object access: def.

Array element access: 3.

Array element itself: [1,2,3].

Object itself: {"mno":12345,"p.q":"rst"}.

Key that contains `.`: rst.
----

== How to utilize

=== CLI

Use Asciidoctor's `--require` option like this:

  $ asciidoctor -r asciidoctor-json-value-loader sample.adoc

=== Ruby

When you require this gem it automatically extend Asciidoctor
so that `json-value` inline macro properly works.

[source,ruby]
----
require 'asciidoctor'
require 'asciidoctor-json-value-loader'

Asciidoctor.convert_file 'sample.adoc', safe: :safe
----

== Change log

* Verison 0.1.2 (2024/07/13)
+
--
Modified gemspec description.
--
* Verison 0.1.2 (2024/07/13)
+
--
Warning messages when specified json value does not exsist is supported.
--
* Verison 0.1.0 (2024/07/13)
+
--
Initial Version.
--

== LICENSE

include::LICENSE[]

Commit message:

Change inner-json path separater character
and introduce a delimiter attribute to change that separater

README.adoc, after:

= asciidoctor-json-value-loader
:doctype: book
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
:toc: left
:toclevels: 4
ifndef::env-github[:icons: font]
ifdef::env-github[]
:status:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:important-caption: :exclamation:
:note-caption: :paperclip:
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

An https://asciidoctor.org/[asciidoctor] extention that loads specified JSON value
from specified JSON file as a text.

This extention offers just one inline macro named `json-value`.

== Installation

This extension is published on https://rubygems.org/[RubyGems] as asciidoctor-json-value-loader.

After adding it to your project's Gemfile or gemspec, you can install it by just running Bundler.

Or install it directly:

  $ gem install asciidoctor-json-value-loader

== Notation

This extension offers only one inline macro named `json-value`.

It requires following two.

- **A JSON file path to load**
- **A path to the value within that JSON**

You should give them to `json-value` inline macro,
as a concatnated string in the order of above list with colon-separated format.

Where:

* **A JSON file path**
+
Arbitrary character can be used as a path except `:`.

* **A path to the value within the JSON**
+
--
You can specify object keys and array index with slash-separated format. +
This extention dig into the JSON with them from root to child in order.

Each key string is decoded as a URI component in advance,
so that the `/` can be used as a part of key string.

In such case you need to convert `/` to `%2F` manually in advance.

TIP: If you use delimiter attribute, you can change delimiter from '/' to any character you specified.

WARNING: A number is always recognized as Array index number, not key string of the Object.
--



=== Sample

If following json file are given.

[source,json]
.a.json
----
{
  "abc": "def",
  "ghi": [ 1, 2, 3 ],
  "jkl": { "mno": 12345, "p/q": "rst" }
}
----

You can load its arbitrary value by specifying it like this.

[source,asciidoctor]
----
Object access: json-value:a.json:abc[].

Array element access: json-value:a.json:ghi/2[].

Array element itself: json-value:a.json:ghi[].

Object itself: json-value:a.json:jkl[].

Key that contains `.`: json-value:a.json:jkl/p%2Fq[].
----

It will be converted as follows.

[source,asciidoctor]
----
Object access: def.

Array element access: 3.

Array element itself: [1,2,3].

Object itself: {"mno":12345,"p/q":"rst"}.

Key that contains `.`: rst.
----

== How to utilize

=== CLI

Use Asciidoctor's `--require` option like this:

  $ asciidoctor -r asciidoctor-json-value-loader sample.adoc

=== Ruby

When you require this gem it automatically extend Asciidoctor
so that `json-value` inline macro properly works.

[source,ruby]
----
require 'asciidoctor'
require 'asciidoctor-json-value-loader'

Asciidoctor.convert_file 'sample.adoc', safe: :safe
----

== Change log

* Verison 0.2.0 (2024/07/17)
+
--
* Change inner-json path separater character.
* Introduce the attribute `delimiter` to change the separater character.
--
* Verison 0.1.2 (2024/07/13)
+
--
Modified gemspec description.
--
* Verison 0.1.2 (2024/07/13)
+
--
Warning messages when specified json value does not exsist is supported.
--
* Verison 0.1.0 (2024/07/13)
+
--
Initial Version.
--

== LICENSE

include::LICENSE[]
